# C-Shell-Builder

Use this as a simple project manager for a C project.
Since I am using this myself, I will try to keep adding features whenever I need them.

## Usage

- When you want to make a new C project, make a directory with the name of the project.
- Then, change into that directory and run the c command.
- You will get asked if you want to make a new project, just hit y for yes
- Now observe the files and folders that were created in the directory using `ls -A`

### Meaning of directories

**src:** For project .c files (a `main.c` is automatically created)<br>
**include:** For project .h files (a `$project_name.h` file is automatically created)<br>
**build:** For .o files<br>
**tests:** For test programs<br>

### Meaning of files

**.project:** Information on the recent calls to c (first line is back of gcc (after all files), second line is front of gcc) <br>
**gmon.out, profile.txt**: This is generated by gcc if you specify the `-pg` flag and run the program; if you run `gprof out|test gmon.out > profile.txt` (use either test or out) you can then view the `profile.txt` file to get some profiling information about your program (this might get embedded in the c command later)

### Compiling/Executing a project

Compiling is as easy as running the c command. You may add one of the following flags:<br>
**-x:** Execute the program<br>
**-B:** Rebuild the source files<br>
**-test *name*:** Build and execute a test program (the name must be the file name without file extension inside the tests directory)<br>
**-time *amount***: Execute the program but no longer than given time (based on the timeout command)<br>
**-e *a,b,...*** Specify gcc flags to exclude from the `.project` file<br>
**-g -pg -O\* -l\* -I\* -L\* -f\* -W\* -D\* -U\* -m\* -std=\*:** Flags for gcc<br>
**--home-install *all|include|bin***: Move project files into the `$HOME/mylibs` directory

When executing the main program or a test, you will also be prompted the exit code and runtime of the program

## Installation

For installation, you can simply put the three lines of the `sample_bashrc` into your `.bashrc` and run the following command:<br>
```
LASTDIR="$(pwd)" &&
mkdir -p ~/mylibs/bin &&
cd ~ &&
git clone https://github.com/MordorHD/C-Shell-Builder.git &&
cd ~/mylibs/bin &&
gcc -O3 ~/C-Shell-Builder/fsub.c -o fsub &&
cp ~/C-Shell-Builder/c_build.sh ./ &&
cd "$LASTDIR"
```
Now you should be able to use the `c` and `cx` commands.<br>
If you want to update, simply type `c -update` wherever; it is recommended to keep the `C-Shell-Builder` directory around somewhere in your home directory for faster downloads.

## Feature X is missing

If you feel like something is missing or there is an error, please tell me and I will try to improve the script.
